well howdy there internet people it's
bow-gun so tonight we're going to talk
about what two movies can teach us about
unring bells and foreign policy there's
a very common desire to apply morals and
ideology to foreign policy decisions and
it sounds great but that's not what
foreign policy is foreign policy is more
like interpersonal relationships there's
a couple hundred people in a room they
all know each other and they're all
talking every conversation impacts the
way all of the other people in the room
look at that person that's what foreign
policy is more like it's not it's not
good versus evil that's not how it works
but in Jurassic Park the very first one
there's that scene the famous scene with
the two cars the kids are in the first
one and the t-rex or the I die lights
you know it was a big thing back in the
day Jeff Goldblum's character gets out
of that second vehicle with that flare
he never should have done that that was
stupid he should not have done that had
he not done that odds are things would
be better he didn't need to get involved
but he did now once he did that and he
threw the flare and kept running and the
t-rex is chasing him what would have
happened if he had just ran back to the
car unnecessary bloodshed alright yeah
it's not a good idea
foreign policy works the same way once
the decisions made and and it's been
acted on you can't just go back there
will be consequences
then there's some movie signs at the
beginning of the movie Mel Gibson's wife
I guess she's walking down the road and
boom the car right that horrible scene
she's pinned against the fence the car
never should have been there never
should have been there but was all that
was holding her together unlike those
movies unlike that car sometimes there
is a way to slowly pull out without
destroying everything a lot of people
questioned my my stance on the the peace
deal quote luckily we don't worry about
that because that was the shortest-lived
surrender I've ever seen in my life but
it's still a good jumping-off point
withdrawing from Afghanistan just
cutting and running and not helping the
national government and guarantees that
the opposition takes back over you can't
say well we just need to leave because
what you're really saying is we just
need to allow all of this horrible stuff
to happen that's what you're saying we
can't just cut and run unless you are
comfortable with what that opposition
group is going to do to the people that
live in that country especially those
that help the United States
same thing applies in Syria you know we
went in there never should have been
there
never should have been there but once we
were there we were stuck and people
called it at the top Oh
like we can't really leave now yeah
that's true because you create that
power vacuum and that that space is
gonna get filled by somebody by one of
the other 200 people in the room
somebody's gonna walk over and fill that
space and odds are they won't be a good
country a good person and other people
get to see you pick a fight for your
buddy and then leave
hasty withdrawals cost lives
and it's not combatants its innocence
it's civilians it's people that had
nothing to do with it
there are numerous ways to get out of
these situations that don't amount to
just condoning silently saying yeah fine
forget all these people we know what's
gonna happen but we're gonna look the
other way there's a bunch of ways that
we could leave Afghanistan and not do
that there's a bunch of ways we could
leave Syria and not do that it's
completely possible we have entire units
within the military whose their sole
mission in life is to train local groups
that's what they do with Afghanistan
yeah we're gonna need to give them
helicopters and our old surveillance
drones
they're not any good anymore now anyway
yeah but it can be done it will probably
take two years we could pull out our our
combat forces leave a carrier group
offshore for air support and allow the
Special Forces to do their job given the
resources they need and allow them to
train the the indigenous forces that's
all that needs to happen we'll give them
the helicopters we send maybe pilots
from the 160th to help train local
Afghan pilots
get them up to speed so they can have
the mobility they need we can't just
leave them to be done away with I think
that we owed them after plunging them
into this we owe it to them to leave
them with at least a fighting chance and
in syria's very very similar Syria is
harder because there are more there are
more people in that conversation and
there are more people trying to get
something out of that country but again
that was a situation that had the
administration just stayed the course it
would have stabilized on its own
we can't allow ideology to make these
decisions and we can't allow the
morality that should have been in place
10 years ago to affect the decision
today because what was moral for us to
do in 2006 that's not the moral thing to
do anymore and the other thing that I've
seen a lot of people say is that well
you know even if we did do that the
government wouldn't be doing that to
help them they would have their own
reasons
yeah that's probably true that's
probably true but I would suggest that
it is a really really bad idea to base
your morality and what you support off
the government's morality and allow them
to make decisions and those decisions
influence what you think is right and
wrong it is immoral to leave these
people twisting in the wind
after we plunged them into it we can do
it without staying there forever we can
do it without selling people out we can
do it without costing tens of thousands
if not hundreds of thousands of innocent
lives anyway it's just a thought y'all
have a good night